Day_01_MySQL
=================

Full Stack Developers
========================
Full Stack --> Frontend + Backend

Frontend: 

Frontend is a visual and interactive layer of a website or application that users directly see and interact with through a webserver or mobile app. It is also called the client side because it runs on the users device (browser/mobile).

Responsibilities of Frontend:

1. Display Web pages and User Interface (UI)
2. accepts user input(forms, buttons, search boxes)
3. validates user input before sending it to the server.
4. calls backend API to fetch or send data.
5. display the response received from backend
6. provides animations and interactive effects
by prepare frontend layers we are using some technologies like HTML, CSS, JS, Bootstrap

Backend:

Backend is the server-side part of an application. users cannot see it directly , but it performs all the business logic, security, data processing, and database operations. It acts as the brain of the application

Responsibilities of Backend:

1. Process clients request.
2. implements business logic.
3. connects with database
4. performs crud operations
5. Authenticates and authorize users.
6. encrypts passwords and authorize users.
7. generate reports.
8. returns responses to the frontend
we have to use some language to build backend like python, java, .net. php. c. c++

API(Application Programming Interfaces):

PAI is a set of rules and protocols that allows two different applications or system to communicate and exchange data without exposing their  internal implementation. It acts as bridge between the frontend and backend software systems.

Advantages of APIS:

1. enables communication between different systems.
2. Promotes code reusability.
3. platform independent.
4. faster application development.
5. supports integration with third-party-services.
6. improves scalability.
7. easy to maintain. 

Storage Areas:

As part of our applications we required to store data like customer info, billing info, calls info .. etc to store these data we required some storage areas.

there are two types of storage areas such as:

1) Temporary Storage Areas: These are the memory areas where the data will be stored temporally.

ex: all JVM memory areas (like heap, stack, pc, method area, registers, native method stack). once JVM is shutdown all these memory areas will                                            be cleared automatically

2) Permanent storage Areas: It is also known as persistent storage areas. where data will be stored permanently.

ex: File systems, Databases, data warehouses... etc

File Management Systems(FMS): A file management system is a system where data is stored in files on the operating systems. each application 
program must handled its own storage data. retrieval and updating , File systems can be provided by the local operating systems.

File systems are best suitable for to store very less amount of information.

ex: A Library Management System Storing Books in a separate text files like books.txt, members.txt

Limitations of File Management Systems:

1. Data Redundancy : same data is stored in multiple files.
2. Data Inconsistency : updates in one file may not be reflected in another.
3. poor data security : no proper accessed control
4. Difficult Data Retrieval : searching requires custom programs.
5. Integrity Issues : No Constraints(ex: roll numbers uniqueness)
6. scalability issues : hard to manage as data grows.
to overcome the above problems in File systems we should go for databases.

Database Management System (DBMS): A DBMS is a collection of programs that enables to users to create, manage and manipulate databases.

it acts as an interface between user and database.

Advantages of DBMS:

1. We can store huge amount of information in databases.
2. Query language support is available for every databases and hence we perform database operations easily
3. to access data present in the databases . compulsory username and password must be required hence data is secured.
4. inside database data will be stored in the form of tables. while developing databases table schemas, database admin 
follows various constraints like unique key, Primary key, Foreign key.. etc while prevent data duplication. hence there 
is no chance off data inconsistency problems

Limitations of Databases:

1. Databases cannot store huge amount of information like (TB)
2. databases can provide supports for only structured data(tabular data or relational data) and cannot provide supports for 
unstructured data or semi- structured data (likes videos ,audios, xml data).

To overcome these problems we should go for some more advanced databases like data warehouses, big data.. etc.

What are the difference between File Management System(FMS) and Database Management System(DBMS)